11.11.2020
My dear diary today I would like to tell you about
my second exercises from szuflandia UKOS 02 which I did.

First part of those tasks was quite intresting for me
than others - because I need to do it which someone else.
I did it with Oleksii - we have a few moment of stress
but it was good pratcice and I think that was good
because we learn a lot of things. First we created in
our accounts directories which we named "tmp"(using
mkdir tmp command) . Next we created files in those
directories which we named "plik.txt"(using touch plik.txt
command). In the next step we changed access rights in 
those directories and files to give access to all users (
using chmod g+w command). Next I created a file "jajo" in
Oleksii directory and he do that same thing in my directory
(using touch /home/PJWSTK/s00000/tmp/jajo command). Next
we removed those files from our directories (using rm command)
and we manipulated which plik.txt files - we wrote inside this
files some words, I did this in Oleksii file and he did this
in my file (using echo slowo > /home/PJWSTK/s00000/tmp/plik.txt
command). After that I remove those directory and file (using 
rmdir and rm command) in my account and complete this part.

Second part of those tasks was about access rights but in
my own situation. I took my access rights away and I tried
to get out of this situation. First I created two directories
one inside another "a and b" (using mkdir -p a/b command).
Next I created file c inside b directory (using command touch c).
Next I took my acces right away and I can't do anything!!! (using
chmod 000 command). I needed to go back to a directory and use 
command chmod 755 b  to get back my acces and I finally can do
somethings with b directory and c file. Next I go to b directory
and use command chmod 000 to took away my access rights to a
directory - in this situation I wasn't able to use cd.. or 
cd../.. command, I had to use cd/home/PJWSTK/s22043/tmp command
to get out of this place. To get back my access rights to a
directory I used command chmod a+rx, u+w a. It was nice task.
  
Last part of those tasks was about HTML and my own webpage on
szuflandia. I'm just created public_html (useing command mkdir)
directory and file strona.html (useing command touch) inside it.
Inside strona.html I wrote some HTML command which weren't a 
surprise for me because I have small experience in creating 
a websites, but I didn't know that we can remove access right
for user and users groups and we only need to get access rights 
to read for other users to show our websites - it's nice to 
know that.

That's it for today. See you!!!

